Friends here our concept is while loop syntaxes see
already we have seen for loop and different types of syntaxes for your for loop.
The same way we how different types of syntaxes for your while loop.
Let me go with one by one.
The very first one is infinity loop.
Let me show you infinitely loop with furthest.
So I'm, I'm picking simple shell script.
So I'm writing, you know,
in four loop you how with the syntax infinity for loop.
So simply, you can write eco.
Simply I am writing, okay.
And I'm writing one more output.
Now let me save it.
See, I am providing execution permission for this.
Now first you see your core ones.
So you know for whether the syntax,
we'll repeat the lines which are there between do and done for infinite number of times.
Now let me run and see there is a,
it is executing for infinite number of times.
Then to stop that HER2 press control C on your keyboard so that it will stop.
Now, same concept you can also implement with your while loop.
Simply write while true, while true.
Let me save it. See you are core and I'm running that.
Now, while true, will allow to exclude these two lines between do and done,
whatever the lines are there or statements or there are commands are there.
Those commands or lines are statements will
repeat for infinite number of times C, that is.
Now in press control C. Not only does that to syntax in shelf true,
you can also write simply colon.
Now this also will execute your code for infinite number of times and that's it.
So both are for same purpose.
That's fine.
Now see that we have these two syntaxes for loop.
No, while loop with command.
Instead of writing through our colon in place of that,
you can also write a command.
Let me show you that.
So simply the either syntax while command do some statements or commands and done.
Now, let me comment this code.
So I'm using multi-line comment,
my comment one I am taking here,
and then my comment one close while I'm writing date command,
then do and w1.
Then here's employee I'm reading echo.
Date command is executing with the while loop.
Let me save it.
See the dessert first.
So before going to execute C,
your core ones and done it.
If you remember a boat if condition,
if some command, if I write,
if this command is executed successfully,
then only if will allow to execute the lines we thought they would do it between.
Then enough, i let me write it once.
And let me open my plus c.
If you remember, if some command, then your phi.
You've command will allow to execute the lines are commands which are
there between then and F-I if the command is successfully executed.
The same concept here also.
Now while will execute the line which is there between do and done.
If this command is success.
But if will execute only one time,
but while will exclude these command for
infinite number of times if this command is success.
So what it will do means first,
we will take this condition,
whether it is executing successfully or not.
If it is sucked says it will execute once.
And then again, we'll come back to this equation only command position.
Again, same commanded comment.
That is success again will exude.
That's why this is also is going to exclude infinite number of times c there is a.
But now what I want to do is I don't want to display the command output.
Why it may be success or fail.
I don't want to display the output of the command,
which is their newer while syntax.
Just if it is success x,
good retailer away, just stop it.
C.
Infinity syntax.
Now, suppose I'm writing some invalid command.
Let's say this is invalid command, right?
That's why your while loop will own take skewed the lines which are
there between do and then see that it is not executing even one time,
because at very first time itself, this is fail.
If it is failed way doesn't allow to
execute the lines which are there between do and done.
That's it.
Not only that command,
you can also write a test to combine in place of that command.
But testicle Monday, somewhat useful.
Instead of this, let me commend the score.
While I'm writing some test to command here.
Suppose for greater than one.
Yes, it is true.
It is true, you know that the lines which are there between do and done will
exclude for infinite number of times if the condition is true.
Now see that executing while loop,
then simply I am writing one modelling just for your understanding.
Now see it as you need to practice each and every syntax here,
executing your while loop for infinite number of times.
But I can modify this concept in this way.
Suppose what I'm doing is my requirement is I
want to print numbers from one to ten by using while loop.
Then initially I will take starting numbers,
start number equals to one.
Then I'm taking a condition here, dollar star.
If it is less than or equal to ten,
less than or equal to ten,
then I want to exclude my while loop.
And here what I'm doing is instead of writing two eco statements,
now I am writing echo, dollar start.
Then I'm increasing the value of your star.
Simply start plus, plus.
Then how it will work.
Very simple.
Now your previous all code is commented.
Now you're unaware if you're on your shell script, it will start from here,
starting close to one, then while,
while you will check this condition.
Is it true as of now you are.
Start is one, yes, it grew grew mainstream legs good.
They block which is the Caribbean do and then once.
But while executing the block which is there between Dewan
done automatically you are increasing start value.
You are printing one, then you are increasing your value started to T2.
So once it is done, again, you are while loop.
We'll come back to this equation condition place, command place.
Now you're starting to two less than equals ten.
Yes, true.
Again to link school.
So until this condition is true,
you're while will exclude these two lines again and again.
Once. If this condition is fail,
then your wild will stop to exclude the lines which are there wouldn't do and done.
And simply it will come more from your while loop.
Be clear, these two lines will exclude until this condition is true, you know,
after certain time definitely you will start will become 1111 less than houston.
No false. That's why whenever if you start value becomes 11,
then your while loop is stopping.
Now let me save it and run it and see the result.
You are getting one to ten.
That's it.
So in that way you can use your while loop with command as well.
So instead of writing command, you can also take a,
it's even testing is also one of the command, right?
That's why I have taken that. Now.
Come back to your previous syntaxes.
Now, very useful syntax isn't your real time.
We do a while loop or reading a file content using while loop.
Very simple. While read line, line is a variable.
You can take any variable here.
But whenever if you're reading a content of your file while will
read line by line just to we are taking suitable name as line.
But you can take any variable here. Now let me show you this.
See in our previous lecture we have a file name called sorrows info.plist.
Now I want to read the content of this file using while loop.
See if you go with the for loop. For loop.
The for loop is not reading the content of your file as a line by line.
It is reading values based on space.
That's why whenever if you want to read the content of your file line by line,
then please go with while loop only.
While read each line I'm taking.
You can take any variable no.
Then simply write done less than only filename in gas.
If your file name is there in a variable,
let's say I'm writing filename equals to.
If you're very, if you're filename is there in,
in place of a variable,
I mean inside a variable.
Then dollar file underscore name, that's it.
Then I am writing here a co each line.
Let's now see how it is going to work.
So this entire thing is commented.
Now your code will start from here.
There is a variable called file name.
Into that this file name we'll store wild read each line, do undone.
So first you are, while we'll take the content from this file, all lines.
And if you have four lanes,
now, the logic which is there between do and then we'll repeat four times.
But while executing first time it will get first-line,
second time, second line. That's it.
That's it.
Now, if you want to read a file,
content is the best syntax.
But if you want to read command output,
it may be any command.
It may be any command,
then this is the bestest syntax.
If you want to read file content,
then go with the syntax.
But I want to read any command output using while loop.
Then you had to go in this way command pipeline while read.
Again, ladies, a variable you can take anything here,
do done the statements.
Let me show you that. Suppose I have a yeah,
first I will show you reading content of a file itself.
But to read your file content,
these the best syntax, whatever we have as of now.
Let me come in this mike comment for now,
let me write it here.
See CAT, dollar filename or directly going into your file limit
sells pipeline while read.
I can take line also your variable. It can take any variable.
Done.
So here I'm writing echo dollar line.
And for your understanding, because if you want write one more ACO,
yes, you can write it simply.
I'm reading in this way.
Now see yes, using the word command output pipeline while loop also,
you are able to read the file content,
not only file contents.
Suppose you have a, this command,
this command output also you can provide for your while loop in this way.
Let me open once again,
you are while loops inside of this cat servers.
Any command output you can provide.
Now I commented that simply I'm running LSF and LRT pipeline while read line, that's it.
Now, you held so many lines in this output.
Now your while loop is going to take one by one from this output.
But here suppose, if I want to print line by line from the output of ls Ivan LRT.
You had to go with a while loop. While loop only.
If you go in for loop,
what it will do, it will take this as one.
It won on value,
second value, third value, fourth value,
fifth, 6789101112, something like that.
But while we take entire thing as a one line,
that is the advantage with while loops.
Now see that we are getting line by line.
So that is the uses of while loop.
So there is, these are the very simple syntaxes for our while loop.
We have one advanced level uses of while loop with IFC.
I EFS internal field is operator,
will discuss that in our next lecture.
Thank you.